DOCS-10075 revamped openID policy (#333)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/policy-openid-connect.adoc

>s| Policy Name | OpenID Connect OAuth 2.0 Token Enforcement
>s|Summary      | Allows access only to authorized client applications
>s|Category | Security
>s| First Mule version available | v4.1.1
.4+>.^s| Returned Status Codes
|400 - Invalid token
|401 - Unauthorized access or error when connecting to the authorization server
|403 - Forbidden, invalid client application credentials
|500 - Bad response from authorization server, or WSDL SOAP Fault error.
|===

> The OpenID Connect Access Token Enforcement policy restricts access to a protected resource by allowing only those HTTP requests that provide a valid Oauth2 token belonging to a client application with API access. OpenID Connect Access token Enforcement policy does not generate tokens but only validates them.

Reviewer: "restricts access...by allowing only..." > "restricts access...to only":

```suggestion
The OpenID Connect Access Token Enforcement policy restricts access to a protected resource to only those HTTP requests that provide a valid Oauth2 token belonging to a client application with API access. The policy does not generate tokens but only validates them.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[NOTE]

> This policy is only available for an organization that is configured to use the xref:access-management::configure-client-management-openid-task.adoc[OpenID Connect as a Client Management solution].  

Reviewer: Does this require a note or can it be merged into the flowing narrative?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This policy available only to an organization that is configured to use the xref:access-management::configure-client-management-openid-task.adoc[policy as a client-management solution].  
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[how-this-policy-works]]
== How This Policy Works

> The following diagram illustrates the OpenID Connect Access Token Enforcement policy workflow:

Reviewer: You could simplify many sentences by using "the policy" instead of the whole name, once that name is established.
Search for globally and evaluate.

Author: Thanks!

Before applying this policy, make sure that you are familiar with its xref:about-configure-api-for-oauth.adoc[prerequisites]
[[how-this-policy-works]]
== How This Policy Works

When you apply the policy, you may optionally define a space separated list of https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#page-23[OAuth 2.0 scopes] to be enforced by it.
OAuth 2.0 scopes are a way to further limit access to a resource protected by OAuth. You may define words like READ, WRITE, or some others that make sense in the context of your organization (eg. CONTRACTOR, PUBLIC, EMPLOYEES_ONLY, etc).
The following diagram illustrates the OpenID Connect Access Token Enforcement policy workflow:

== Supported Grant Types
OpenID Connect supports two types of OAuth grant types:
image:open-id-policy-workflow.png[OpenID Connect OAuth 2.0 Token Enforcement Workflow]

* Authorization code

> * Implicit

Reviewer: Insert phrase or sentence that transitions from image to first step?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . Policy extracts the token from the request and sends it to the validation endpoint to verify the integrity of the token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The policy extracts the token from the request and sends it to the validation endpoint to verify the integrity of the token.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . Token validation endpoint returns metadata of the token, including the client ID of the client application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The token validation endpoint returns token metadata, including the client application ID.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> . Using local contract credentials that was previously obtained from Anypoint Platform, the policy verifies whether the client ID has access to the API. 

Reviewer: number agreement error: "credentials that was" > "credentials that were"

Author: Changed the sentence.

> When a token validation endpoint successfully validates a token, certain information, such as configurable fields from OpenID Connect are returned to the policy.

Reviewer: comma
```suggestion
When a token validation endpoint successfully validates a token, certain information, such as configurable fields from OpenID Connect, are returned to the policy.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[source,text,linenums]
---
{
    "uid":"john.doe",
    "mail":"john.doe@example.com"
    "token_type":"Bearer",
    "expires_in":3600
}
---

The fields returned by the OAuth provider are processed by the policy, propagated throughout the Mule flow, and finally exposed to the backend if the application requesting the access uses an HTTP requester.

=== Token Caching

> After the system validates a token, it is cached (by default) until it expires, to improve the performance of the policy. In certain cases, such as in the case of revoked tokens, you might want to minimize or even disable caching.

Reviewer: clarifying reference:
```suggestion
After the system validates a token, that token is cached (by default) until it expires, to improve the performance of the policy. In certain cases, such as in the case of revoked tokens, you might want to minimize or even disable caching.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> To control the token-cached time before retrying a validation against the token validation endpoint, specify the following property when starting the Mule runtime engine:

Reviewer: simpler and also parallel with wording in Line 66:
```suggestion
To control the time that tokens are cached before retrying a validation against the token validation endpoint, specify the following property when starting the Mule runtime engine:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

`anypoint.platform.max_federation_expiration_time=<expiration time in seconds; specify 0 to disable caching>`

> Alternatively, you can also specify this parameter in the `wrapper.conf` file.

Reviewer: redundant: don't need both "alternatively" and "also"

Author: Yes, thanks. Done!

 
To control the number of tokens that can be cached simultaneously, specify the following property when starting the Mule runtime engine:
 
`anypoint.platform.openid_connect_cache_max_size=<amount of tokens to be cached; default value is 10.000>`

> Alternatively, you can also specify this parameter in the `wrapper.conf` file.

Reviewer: ditto edit Line 64

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[token-validation-endpoint-authentication]]
=== Token Validation Endpoint Authentication

> To complete validating the provided token, the policy sends a request to the validation endpoint. The policy then obtains the credentials from the client provider configuration (Token Introspection Client section) in Access management. These credentials are sent in the request body, as specified in the https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-2.3[Client Authentication section of the OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework specification]. 

Reviewer: term list:
```suggestion
To complete validating the provided token, the policy sends a request to the validation endpoint. The policy then obtains the credentials from the client provider configuration in access management, per the Token Introspection Client section of the OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework specification). These credentials are sent in the request body, as specified in the https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-2.3[Client Authentication section of the OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework specification]. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

Other authentication methods for the token validation endpoint are currently not supported.

== Configuring the Expose Headers Option

> If you configured the `Expose Headers` option in the policy, the application (for example, out-of-the-box proxies) uses the HTTP requester to redirect the properties to the backend as headers. 

Reviewer: Is "(for example, out-of-the-box proxies)" from a previous topic?
In general, we want to keep topics independent, so that updating them does not create reference errors.
If you use one example for several topics, be sure to make that clear in the context, and call it "the example in <name topic>" or some other identifier besides "previous topic/section/whatever."
See the style ref. entry for "self-reference."

> For each field, the original request to the protected resource is enriched with the HTTP headers using the format: X-AGW- + <key>=<value>. For the example response from the previous section, the following headers will be added:

Reviewer: "For the example response from the previous section" requires the audience to remember or navigate backward.

Reviewer: passive and future tense: "will be added."

Author: Done! Thanks!

[source,text,linenums]
---
X-AGW-uid=john.doe
X-AGW-mail=john.doe@example.com
X-AGW-token_type=Bearer
X-AGW-expires_in=3600
---

For further processing within the flow, the original unparsed response from the validation endpoint is made available. The information is stored in an authentication object. 

> For example, suppose a `"mail`" field is returned to the policy, you can access the value of the field by using the following DataWeave 2.0 expression:

Reviewer: "suppose...you can access" is ungrammatical:
```suggestion
For example, if a `"mail`" field is returned to the policy, you can access the value of the field by using the following DataWeave 2.0 expression:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

`#[authentication.properties.userProperties.mail]`

You can obtain the client ID of the OAuth2 token by using the following DataWeave 2.0 expression:

`#[authentication.principal]`

> == Communicating With the Token Validation Endpoint Using a Proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Communicating with the Token Validation Endpoint Using a Proxy
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

You can enable the OpenID Connect OAuth 2.0 Token Enforcement policy to use the gateway proxy settings by specify the following property when starting the Mule runtime engine: 

`anypoint.platform.external_authentication_provider_enable_proxy_settings=<true|false(default)>`

When you enable this property, the policy uses the Mule proxy settings, if you have specified the following parameters:

* `anypoint.platform.proxy_host=localhost`
* `anypoint.platform.proxy_port=8080`

== Configuring Policy Parameters

> When you apply the policy to your API from the UI, a list of parameters are displayed based on whether your environment includes Mule or xref:service-mesh::index.adoc[Non-Mule application managed by Anypoint Service Mesh].

Reviewer: faulty number agreement: "a list...are displayed" > "a list...is displayed"

Reviewer: Are the parameters displayed/not displayed based on Mule or non-Mule, or do the specific parameters displayed depend on Mule/non-Mule?

Reviewer: ...and other copyedits:
```suggestion
When you apply the policy to your API from the UI, a list of parameters is displayed based on whether your environment includes Mule or xref:service-mesh::index.adoc[is a non-Mule application managed by Anypoint Service Mesh].
```

Author: Thanks! Done!

=== Configuring the Parameters for Mule Applications

> For Mule applications, the following parameters are displayed based on whether your environment includes Mule applications:

Reviewer: This is confusing:

For Mule applications...based on whether your environment includes Mule applications

The first part indicates that there ARE Mule app; the second part makes it sound like there might NOT be Mule apps

Author: Done! Thanks!

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="30,40,30"]
|===

> | Element | Description | Example

Reviewer: Where does Mule app vs. non-Mule app. come in to this? The intro sentences seems to not connect to the table.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Scopes | A space-separated list of supported scopes. | READ, WRITE, READ and WRITE 

Reviewer: For parallelism among Description texts:
```suggestion
| Scopes | Shows a space-separated list of supported scopes. | READ, WRITE, READ and WRITE 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

| Scope Validation Criteria | Determines if the token must contain all defined scopes or just one.
Values: `Contains all scopes` and `Contains any scope` | 

> In this example, the value `READ,WRITE` was selected for the scope element.

Reviewer: Which example?

Reviewer: Is READ,WRITE consistent with the values listed in Line 125?

Reviewer: past tense

Author: Done! Thanks!

If the ‘Contains all scopes’ value is selected, the tokens with the scopes `READ` and `WRITE` are accepted. If the ‘Contains any scopes’ value is selected, the tokens with the scope `READ, WRITE, and READ, WRITE` are accepted. 
| Validate TLS Certificate | Enables third-party authentication server TLS validation. | If selected, the communication with the token validation endpoint uses the TLS protocol.

> | Expose Headers | In a proxy scenario, defines if headers should be exposed in the request to the backend. User properties returned by the federation server are sent as headers to the backend with the 'X-AGW-' prefix. | See the <<leveraging-TVE-information,Leveraging Token Validation Endpoint Information for Mule Applications>> for more information about this field.

Reviewer: "defines if" > "specifies whether"

Reviewer: clarify modification: 
```suggestion
| Expose Headers | In a proxy scenario, specifies whether headers should be exposed in the request to the backend. User properties returned by the federation server are prefixed with 'X-AGW-' and sent as headers to the backend . | See the <<leveraging-TVE-information,Leveraging Token Validation Endpoint Information for Mule Applications>> for more information about this element.
```

Author: Thanks! Done!

> | Skip Client Id Validation | Skips client application's API contract validation. | If selected, the step 4 of the diagram in the <<how-this-policy-works,How This Policy Works>> section is skipped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Skip Client Id Validation | Skips the client application's API contract validation. | If selected, Step 4 of the <<how-this-policy-works,How This Policy Works>> section is skipped.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

|===

> === Configuring the Parameters for Non-Mule Applications (Anypoint Service Mesh)

Reviewer: Do not use punctuation in titles.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> For (non-Mule applications that are managed by Anypoint Service Mesh, you configure the OpenID Connect OAuth 2.0 Token Enforcement policy in the same way, excluding the following differences:

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
For non-Mule applications that are managed by Anypoint Service Mesh, you configure the OpenID Connect OAuth 2.0 Token Enforcement policy in the same way as you do Mule applications, with the following differences:
```

Reviewer: One does not "exclude" differences

Author: Done! Thanks!

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="30,40,30"]
|===
| Element | Description | Example

> | Scopes | A space-separated list of supported scopes. | READ, WRITE, READ and WRITE

Reviewer: parallelism
```suggestion
| Scopes | Shows a space-separated list of supported scopes. | READ, WRITE, READ and WRITE
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Skip Client Id Validation | Skips client application's API contract validation. | If selected, the step 4 of the diagram in the <<how-this-policy-works,How This Policy Works>> section is skipped.

Reviewer: ditto edits Line 137

Author: Done! Thanks!

|===

> == FAQs

Reviewer: I think we are trying to avoid FAQs and incorporate the info within them in the appropriate place in the running narrative.

> *The OpenID Connect Access Token Enforcement policy does not appear in the list of policies to apply to the API.*

Reviewer: This is not a question; this is a troubleshooting issue.

> If the OpenID Connect Access Token Enforcement policy  does not appear in the policies list, ensure that you have configured the OpenID client provider in Access Management. For information, see xref:access-management::configure-client-management-openid-task.adoc[Configure OpenID Connect Client Management]. If you are using xref:configure-multiple-credential-providers.adoc[multiple IdPs], check that the API has the OpenID connect client configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the OpenID Connect Access Token Enforcement policy does not appear in the policies list, ensure that you have configured the OpenID client provider in Access Management. For information, see xref:access-management::configure-client-management-openid-task.adoc[Configure OpenID Connect Client Management]. If you are using xref:configure-multiple-credential-providers.adoc[multiple IdPs], verify that the OpenID connect client is properly configured in the API.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

*Can I generate OAuth2 tokens with the policy?*

> No. The policy only validates the tokens.

Reviewer: For example, this info could go into the token validation text....

> *OpenID Connect validation endpoint is rejecting the requests sent by the policy.*

Reviewer: troubleshooting

See the validation endpoint documentation provided by the OpenID connect server and verify whether the authentication method described in the <<token-validation-endpoint-authentication,Token Validation Endpoint Authentication>> section is supported.

*How does the policy manage the credentials to communicate with the validation endpoint?*

This information is part of the policy configuration and is stored on a disk. If you want this information to be stored with encryption, xref:api-gateway-encryption-mule4.adoc[configure gateway encryption in your runtime]. 

*How are the OAuth tokens cached?*

> Oauth2 tokens are cached only in memory and are never written to disk.

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
OAuth2 tokens are cached only in memory and are never written to disk.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> *Does the policy communicate with the Anypoint Platform on a per request basis?*

Reviewer: punctuation
```suggestion
*Does the policy communicate with the Anypoint Platform on a per-request basis?*
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

No, the policy uses client applications previously retrieved by the Mule runtime engine.

> This enables the policy to continue working even if the connection with the Management plane is lost. If you want the client application information that is written on disk to be encrypted, xref:api-gateway-encryption-mule4.adoc[configure gateway encryption in your runtime].

Reviewer: Management plane? I've seen only "control plane."

Author: Done! Thanks!

> *Can I configure Rate-Limiting SLA policy after I configure the OpenID Connect Access Token Enforcement policy?*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Can I configure the Rate-Limiting SLA policy after I configure the OpenID Connect Access Token Enforcement policy?*
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> Yes, you can. Apply the Rate-Limiting SLA policy after the OpenID Connect Access Token Enforcement policy and provide the `Client ID Expression` using the following DataWeave 2.0 expression: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, you can. Apply the Rate-Limiting SLA policy after the OpenID Connect Access Token Enforcement policy and provide a `Client ID Expression` value using the following DataWeave 2.0 expression: 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!
